"save spot":
Watch video and take notes on 10.1.4

Code at 10.1.5
https://courses.bootcampspot.com/courses/951/pages/10-dot-1-5-write-a-test-that-fails-potion-creation?module_item_id=332538

# 10.1 Module

## 10.1.3 Set Up the Project

### Create the Repo

```
git init

git remote add origin git@github.com:<username/yourprojectname>.git
```

### Create the GitHub Issues

#### Create a Potion object.

-   Create tests for the Potion object.

-   The Potion object will be used to give the player stat boosts.

-   If no stat is provided, the stat should be randomly selected.

#### Create a Player object that will be used to store methods and properties related to the user's character.

-   A Player object has the following properties:

-   name

-   health

-   strength

-   agility

-   A Player object has the following methods:

-   getStats()

-   getInventory()

-   getHealth()

-   getAttackValue()

-   isAlive()

-   addPotion()

-   usePotion()

-   reduceHealth()

-   Write appropriate tests for the Player() constructor and methods.

#### Create an Enemy object to store methods and properties related to the enemy that our player has to battle.

-   An Enemy object has the following properties:

    -   name
    -   weapon
    -   health
    -   strength
    -   agility
    -   potion

-   An Enemy object has the following methods:

    -   getDescription()
    -   getHealth()
    -   getAttackValue()
    -   isAlive()
    -   reduceHealth()

-   Write appropriate tests for the Enemy() constructor and methods.

#### Create a Game object, which will be responsible for the game logic. It will be used to keep track of whose turn it is, prompt the user for input, and check to see if the game has been won.

-   All game logic is encompassed by a Game() constructor function.
-   A Game object has the following properties:

    -   roundNumber
    -   isPlayerTurn
    -   enemies
    -   currentEnemy
    -   player

-   A Game object has the following methods:
    -   initializeGame()
    -   battle()
    -   checkEndOfBattle()
    -   startNewBattle()

#### Consolidate the code. We don't yet know exactly what this step entails, but we do know that we'll need to refactor our code after the tests pass, so we'll create this issue as a placeholder.

### Create the Branches

-   `develop`
-   `feature/potion`

### Set Up the Project Directory

-   `npm init` to create a `package.json`
-   create an empty `app.js` and `.gitignore` for `node_modules` and `.DS_Store`
-   create `lib/` folder for `Potion.js`, `Player.js`, `Enemy.js` & `Game.js`
    -   Notice that the first letters are capitalized

## 10.1.4 Set Up the Testing Framework

### TDD

1. developer creates failing test cases (RED)
2. then writes code so the test passes. (GREEN)
3. refactors code so it's DRY (REFACTOR)

### Jest

-   testing framework created/maintained by Facebook
-   install with `npm install jest --save-dev`
-   `--save-dev` tells npm to add Jest to the `devDependencies` list
-   The `devDependencies` are also Node.js modules that our project requires, but they're only needed for development purposes, rather than during runtime (like Inquirer). If we already had a `package.json` file with both `dependencies` and `devDependencies` properties, running `npm install` would install all packages from both lists.
-   ??? More text in this section I don't understand yet

### Create the First Test

-   create `__tests__` folder
-   Jest expects test files to be `*.test.js`
-   create `random.test.js`
-   ??? I didn't understand what all this is about

## Write a Test That Fails Potion Creation

-   create `random.test.js`
-   Jest tests require `const testName = require('../file/path.js');`
-   Tests read like plain English

```
const checkIfEqual = require('../lib/random.js');

test('checks if 10 is equal to 10', () => {
expect(checkIfEqual(10, 10)).toBe(true);
});
```

-   test fails because `random.js` is empty

    -   add something to `random.js`: `module.exports = function() {};`
    -   It'll fail again because it needs to return "true" if two values are equal

-   add function to prove point

```
module.exports = function(val1, val2) {
  if (val1 === val2) {
    return true;
  } else {
    return false;
  }
};
```

-   normally would refactor now, but not much to do
-   add test to check for random number 1-10

```
const randomNumber = require('../lib/random.js');

test('gets random number between 1 and 10', () => {
  expect(randomNumber()).toBeGreaterThanOrEqual(1);
  expect(randomNumber()).toBeLessThanOrEqual(10);
});
```

-   update `random.js` by adding `randomNumber` as a `module.export`

## 10.1.5 Write a Test That Fails Potion Creation

-   delete `random.test.js`
-   require `Potion` module
    `const Potion = require('../lib/Potion.js');`
-   use `new` keyword to create a new `Potion` object.
    -   They store name _and_ value, so they'll be objects
    -   update `Potion.test.js` with a test to ensure the new `Potion` object has a name and value

```
test("creates a health potion object", () => {
	const potion = new Potion("health");

	expect(potion.name).toBe("health");
	expect(potion.value).toEqual(expect.any(Number));
});
```

-   when we create a new `Potion`, it will take assign the given string as the name. -`expect.any()` method takes a constructor as an argument.

    -   expecting the `value` property created with a `Number()`constructor
    -   allow `value` to be any number, rather than a range to allow flexibility.

-   Run test, and watch it fail: the function from `lib/Potion.js` isn't a constructor function yet.

## 10.1.6

### What is a Constructor?

-   constructor functions are blueprints for objects used in conjunction with the `new` keyword.

```
function Car(make, model) {
  this.make = make;
  this.model = model;
}
```

-   constructor functions typically use a capital letter, e.g. `Car`.
-   `this.make` and `this.model` are assigned to the `make` and `model` parameters.
-   without this, it would just be an empty object.
-   _Don't_ use arrow functions as constructor because arrow functions change the meaning of the keyword `this`.

To make a new car object:
`new Car('Honda', 'Civic');`
You could assign it to a variable and console.log
const car = new Car('Honda', 'Civic');
console.log(car);
_you can use both `Car` in constructor and `car` in variable with different capitalizations_

### Create Potion Constructor

-   should take a name parameter and assign the value property to be a random number between 7 & 12
-   if it's a health potion, its value is between 30-40

```
function Potion(name) {
  this.name = name;

  if (this.name === 'health') {
    this.value = Math.floor(Math.random() * 10 + 30);
  } else {
    this.value = Math.floor(Math.random() * 5 + 7);
  }
}

module.exports = Potion;
```

-   ??? [I need to study math.floor and math.random](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/random)

## 10.1.7 Refactor the Code to Handle Random Potion Creation

### Requirements:

-   `Potion` object can be health, agility, or strength.
-   want our enemies to be able to drop a random potion
-   if `Potion()` constructor called without any arguments, we will have it create a new potion with a random type and value

### Create Potion Test

Seems as if the test is written like the requirements.

-   add code to `potion.test.js`:
    -   not checking for name value of `health`
    -   run `npm run test` to see it fail

```
test("creates a random potion object", () => {
    const potion = new Potion();

    expect(potion.name).toEqual(expect.any(String));
    expect(potion.name.length).toBeGreaterThan(0);
    expect(potion.value).toEqual(expect.any(Number));
});
```
