# 10.2

## 10.2.1 Introduction: Create a Player Object

-   Write constructor methods using JavaScript's prototype.
-   Write tests that verify proper method usage.
-   Mock a new Potion object upon creation of a Player object.

### Mocking

"faking" data to ensure that each test focuses on a singular purpose. Sometimes, constructors have other dependencies which aren't directly related to the feature you're testing.

## 10.2.2 Preview

Last lesson: `Potion()` constructor with `name` and `value` properties

### 10.2.2 Goals:

-   Create `Player()` constructor with `name` and `value`.
-   start player with two potions
-   write methods for the `Player` object to retrieve information about the player.

### Create Test for Player _Before_ Writing Constructor

```
test('creates a player object', () => {
    const player = new Player('Dave');

    expect(player.name).toBe('Dave');
    expect(player.health).toEqual(expect.any(Number));
    expect(player.strength).toEqual(expect.any(Number));
    expect(player.agility).toEqual(expect.any(Number));
});
```

-   you can test a single test by using `npm run test Player` or `npm run test Potion`.

## 10.2.4 Write a Player Constructor to Pass the Test

Test created to check for proper creation of a `Player` object. Now, write the constructor function.

code in `Player.test.js`:

```
const Player = require('../lib/Player');

test('creates a player object', () => {
    const player = new Player('Dave');

    expect(player.name).toBe('Dave');
    expect(player.health).toEqual(expect.any(Number));
    expect(player.strength).toEqual(expect.any(Number));
    expect(player.agility).toEqual(expect.any(Number));
});
```

code in `Player.js`:

```
function Player(name = '') {
    this.name = name;

    this.health = Math.floor(Math.random() * 10 + 95);
    this.strength = Math.floor(Math.random() * 5 + 7);
    this.agility = Math.floor(Math.random() * 5 + 7);
}

module.exports = Player;
```

-   ES6 allows you to set empty string if no `name` is provided.

## 10.2.5 Add Mock for Potion andRefactor Player Constructor

-   newly created players start with 2 potions
    -   call `new Potion()` from within the `Player()` constructor?
    -   NO. Preferable not to have constructors dependent on one another.
    -   If you needd to call an API to help, you wouldn't want API logic cluttering up constructor. Call API first, then pass the API data in as arguments.
-   we'll create a new `Potion` object within the `Player()` constructor.
    -   explore how to properly test a function that's dependent on another
    -   good tests run in isolation. If something is broken with `Potion()`, we only want it to affect that test suite, and not the `Player` test suite.

### Mocks

**Mocks** allow you to fake assumed data, which allows the test to focus on its logic alone.

-   create `lib/__mocks__` directory.
-   create `lib/__mocks__/Potion.js`
    -in `lib/__mocks__/Potion.js`, add code so it returns some values when running tests:

```
module.exports = function () {
	this.name = "health";
	this.value = 20;
};
```

-   add code to `Player.test.js`:

```
const Potion = require('../lib/Potion');

jest.mock('../lib/Potion');
```

-   `require()`
    -   imports `Potion()` constructor into the test
    -   gives variables to `Potion` so it doesn't throw an error
-   `jest.mock()`

    -   mocks/replaces the constructor's implementation with our faked data.
    -   if `new Potion()` is ever called within the test file itself or _any_ of subsequent modules attached to the test, mocked data will be returned

-   refactor player test to check for the creation on an inventory: ??? Not sure what this is for?

```
expect(player.inventory).toEqual(
  expect.arrayContaining([expect.any(Object)])
);
```

`this.inventory = [new Potion('health'), new Potion()];`

## 10.2.6 Write Failing Testsfor getStats and getInventory

-   print player's stats after they use potion/receive damage
- set up in a way it's reusable in another game

```
const player = new Player('Jane);

player.getStats();
player.getInventory();
```

### Create Tests
```
test("gets player's stats as an object", () => {
	const player = new Player('Dave');

	expect(player.getStats()).toHaveProperty('potions');
	expect(player.getStats()).toHaveProperty('health');
	expect(player.getStats()).toHaveProperty('strength');
	expect(player.getStats()).toHaveProperty('agility');
});
```